docs/guide/installation/remote.mdx, before:

---
name: On servers or clusters
title: Deploy Botfront and Rasa on Kubernetes
route: /docs/installation/server-cluster
menu: Installation
meta:
  - name: description
    content: Deploy your Rasa assistant with Botfront on a single server or use our Helm chart to deploy on Kubernetes and OpenShift.
  - name: keywords
    content: botfront installation deployment
---

# Install Botfront on servers or clusters

This section will explain how to deploy your Rasa assistant with Botfront on a remote server or Kubernetes / OpenShift cluster

## Kubernetes / OpenShift installation

We provide Helm charts to install Botfront and Rasa projects on your cluster.

Please head to http://github.com/botfront/botfront-helm and follow the instructions.

## Single server installation (VM)

An alternative option is to deploy all the services on a single machine. You can get a virtual machine from the Cloud Provider of your choice. We recommend a machine with at least 1 CPU and 2 Gb of RAM

<Important type="warning">

This is for experimentation only. The following installation is not secure and not suitable for production.

</Important>

1. Create a virtual machine with Ubuntu installed, and note the external IP address. For this tutorial, we'll assume the IP address is `123.99.135.3`
2. Install Node.js

```bash
wget -qO- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.35.1/install.sh | bash
export NVM_DIR="$([ -z "${XDG_CONFIG_HOME-}" ] && printf %s "${HOME}/.nvm" || printf %s "${XDG_CONFIG_HOME}/nvm")"
[ -s "$NVM_DIR/nvm.sh" ] && \. "$NVM_DIR/nvm.sh" # This loads nvm
nvm install lts/erbium
```

3. Install Docker and Docker Compose

```bash
sudo apt-get -y update
sudo apt-get -y remove docker docker-engine docker.io
sudo apt -y install docker.io
sudo systemctl start docker
sudo systemctl enable docker
sudo apt install curl
sudo curl -L "https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/1.24.1/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m)" -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
```

4. Install Botfront

```bash
npm install -g botfront
botfront init # create a project
```

5. Edit the `botfront.yml` file

```bash
nano .botfront/botfront.yml
```

In the `env` section, change the `root_url` to the machine IP address (leave the port 8888 unchanged)

```yaml
env:
  ...
  root_url: 'http://123.99.135.3:8888'
  ...
```

6. Launch Botfront

```bash
botfront up
```

7. Open Botfront in your browser (`http://123.99.135.3:8888`) and setup your project
8. Go to settings/credentials and change the `base_url` host to the IP address (keep the host unchanged)

```yaml
rasa_addons.core.channels.webchat.WebchatInput:
  session_persistence: true
  base_url: http://123.99.135.3:5005
  socket_path: "/socket.io/"
```

9. Botfront is ready to use.


## Configuration

### Services and Docker images

The table below lists all the services that can be used with Botfront.

| Service      | Docker image                                                |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| botftont     | `botfront/botfront`                                         |
| botfront-api | `botfront/botfront-api`                                     |
| rasa         | `botfront/rasa-for-botfront`                                |
| duckling     | `botfront/duckling`                                         |
| actions      | Build your own                                              |
| mongo        | `mongo` or hosted service (mLab, Mongo Atlas, Compose, ...) |

<Important type="tip" title="Image tags">

It is not recommended to deploy the images witout tags or with the `latest` tag. Look in the `.botfront.yml` for the tags corresponding to the version of Botfront you are using.

</Important>

Duckling (a structured entity parser developed by Facebook) is not strictly required if your NLU pipeline doesn't use it.

Also, be very careful with your choice regarding MongoDB. If you decide to just run it as a container, be sure to at least properly mount the volume on a physical disk (otherwise all your data will be gone when the container is destroyed) and seriously consider scheduling back-ups on a regular basis.

Using a hosted service such as MongoDB Atlas is highly recommended, some of them even include a free plan that will be more than enough for small projects.

### Environment variables

The following table shows the environment variables required by each service. Be sure to make those available as arguments or in the manifest files of your deployment

| Environment variable         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Required by               |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------- |
| `ROOT_URL`                   | The Botfront app URL (e.g. https://botfront.your.domain)                                                                                                                                                           | `botfront`                |
| `MONGO_URL`                  | The mongoDB connection string (e.g. `mongodb://user:pass@server:port/database`)                                                                                                                                    | `botfront` `botfront-api` |
| `MONGO_OPLOG_URL`            | The mongoDB Oplog connection string                                                                                                                                                                                | `botfront` (optional)     |
| `MAIL_URL`                   | An SMTP url if you want to use the password reset feature                                                                                                                                                          | `botfront`                |
| `BF_PROJECT_ID`              | The Botfront project ID (typically `bf`)                                                                                                                                                                           | `rasa`                    |
| `BF_URL`                     | The `botfront-api` root url                                                                                                                                                                                        | `rasa` `actions`          |
| `API_KEY`                    | GraphQL API key. You can then set the `authorization` header to the `API_KEY` value to perform GraphQL operations                                                                                                  | `botfront` `rasa`         |
| `MODELS_LOCAL_PATH`          | Where the trained model returned by Rasa is stored locally. Defaults to `/app/models/` and should not be changed in a containerized environment. The Botfront Dockerfile exposes a volume with that path           | `botfront` (optional)     |
| `GRAPHQL_REQUEST_SIZE_LIMIT` | The size over which requests sent to the GraphQL server will receive a HTTP Error 413 (Payload Too Large) response. Defaults to 200kb and [follows Express specs](https://github.com/expressjs/body-parser#limit). | `botfront` (optional)     |

The following table list environment variables used to configure logging within botfront and botfront-api. Make those available as arguments or in the manifest files of your deployment

| Environment variable            | Description                                                                                                                                                                | Allowed values                     | default              |
|---------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|----------------------|
| `APPLICATION_LOG_TRANSPORT`     | Where the application log are written                                                                                                                                      | console, stackdriver               | console              |
| `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS`| Path to google cloud service account file, required if you use stackdriver (see https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/getting-started for details)                  |                                    | none                 |
| `APPLICATION_LOG_LEVEL`         | Minimal severity of logs                                                                                                                                                   | critical, error, warn, info, debug | info                 |
| `APPLICATION_LOGGER_NAME`       | The name of the application logger in Stackdriver                                                                                                                          | Any string                         | botfront_log_app     |
| `MAX_LOGGED_ARG_LENGTH`         | Maximum length of stringified `args` for readability and data usage concerns. Only affecting `info` logs and when APPLICATION_LOG_LEVEL is set to info. Args are never trucated when APPLICATION_LOG_LEVEL is set to debug                 | Any positive integer               | 1000                 |
| `MAX_LOGGED_DATA_LENGTH`        | Maximum length of stringified `data` in request to the api for readability and data usage concerns.                                                                        | Any positive integer               | 100                  |
| `APPLICATION_API_LOGGER_NAME`   | The name of the api application logger in Stackdriver                                                                                                                      | Any string                         | botfront-api_log_app |
| `APPLICATION_API_LOG_TRANSPORT` | Where the api application log are written                                                                                                                                  | console, stackdriver               | console              |
| `APPLICATION_API_LOG_LEVEL`     | Minimal severity of logs for the api                                                                                                                                       | error, warn, info, debug           | info                 |
| `MAX_LOG_BODY_LENGTH`           | Maximum length of stringified `body` in logged request or response from the api                                                                                            | Any positive integer               | 100                  |
| `AUDIT_LOG_TRANSPORT`           | Where the audit log are written (Only on Entreprise-edition)                                                                                                               | console, stackdriver               | console              |
| `AUDIT_LOGGER_NAME`             | The name of the audit logger in Stackdriver (Only on Entreprise-edition)                                                                                                   | Any string                         | botfront_log_audit   |


### Volumes

Although volumes are technically not required for Botfront to run and work, if you do not mount them your data will be gone when containers are destroyed.

| Volume        | Description                                                                    | Used by    |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------- |
| `/app/models` | Where Botfront stores the model retured by Rasa when the training is completed | `botfront` |
| `/app/models` | Where Rasa loads a model from when it starts                                   | `rasa`     |
| `/data/db`    | Where MongoDB persists your data                                               | `mongo`    |

`/app/models` should be mounted on the same location so when Rasa restarts it can load the latest trained model.

### MongoDB database considerations

It is **highly** recommended (but optional) to provide an oplog url with `MONGO_OPLOG_URL`. This will improve the reactivity of the platform as well as reduce the network throughput between MongoDB and Botfront.

<Important type="warning" title="IMPORTANT: choose a very short database name">

Choose a very short database name (e.g `bf`) and not too long response names to [avoid hitting the limits](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/limits/#namespaces).

</Important>

### Indicative minimal technical requirements

Those are the minimal requirements:

| Service                      |    RAM | CPU |
| ---------------------------- | -----: | --: |
| botfront                     |   1 Gb |   1 |
| botfront-api                 | 128 Mb | 0.5 |
| duckling                     | 512 Mb | 0.5 |
| rasa (depending on NLU pipeline and policies) |   1-8 Gb |   1-4 |

### Endpoints

Endpoints let you define how your Rasa instance communicates with Botfront and the actions server:

-   the Botfront API to query the bot responses (`nlg`)
-   the actions server (`action_endpoint`)
-   the tracker store (`tracker_store`)

```yaml
nlg:
  type: 'rasa_addons.core.nlg.GraphQLNaturalLanguageGenerator'
  url: 'http://botfront:3000/graphql'
action_endpoint:
  url: 'http://actions:5055/webhook'
tracker_store:
  store_type:  'rasa_addons.core.tracker_stores.botfront.BotfrontTrackerStore'
  url: 'http://botfront:3000/graphql'
```

<Important type="info" title="Botfront Cloud">
If you want to focus on your product rather than dealing with deployment issues we offer a managed service with managed deployments,
separate development and production environments,
and many premium features including analytics.
You can contact us from our <a href="/pricing">pricing page</a> to have more information.
</Important>

Commit message:

docs: reference to terraform and example webhooks repos

docs/guide/installation/remote.mdx, after:

---
name: On servers or clusters
title: Deploy Botfront and Rasa on Kubernetes
route: /docs/installation/server-cluster
menu: Installation
meta:
  - name: description
    content: Deploy your Rasa assistant with Botfront on a single server or use our Helm chart to deploy on Kubernetes and OpenShift.
  - name: keywords
    content: botfront installation deployment
---

# Install Botfront on servers or clusters

This section will explain how to deploy your Rasa assistant with Botfront on a remote server or Kubernetes / OpenShift cluster

## Kubernetes / OpenShift installation

We provide Helm charts to install Botfront and Rasa projects on your cluster.

Please head to http://github.com/botfront/botfront-helm and follow the instructions.

## Create a cluster from scratch

If you are looking to create a new cluster for the purpose of hosting Botfront and Rasa projects, you can check the following Terraform project: https://github.com/dialoguemd/botfront-terraform-gcp
It is very specific to Google Cloud, but you can adapt it to the cloud provider of your choice.

## Single server installation (VM)

An alternative option is to deploy all the services on a single machine. You can get a virtual machine from the Cloud Provider of your choice. We recommend a machine with at least 1 CPU and 2 Gb of RAM

<Important type="warning">

This is for experimentation only. The following installation is not secure and not suitable for production.

</Important>

1. Create a virtual machine with Ubuntu installed, and note the external IP address. For this tutorial, we'll assume the IP address is `123.99.135.3`
2. Install Node.js

```bash
wget -qO- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.35.1/install.sh | bash
export NVM_DIR="$([ -z "${XDG_CONFIG_HOME-}" ] && printf %s "${HOME}/.nvm" || printf %s "${XDG_CONFIG_HOME}/nvm")"
[ -s "$NVM_DIR/nvm.sh" ] && \. "$NVM_DIR/nvm.sh" # This loads nvm
nvm install lts/erbium
```

3. Install Docker and Docker Compose

```bash
sudo apt-get -y update
sudo apt-get -y remove docker docker-engine docker.io
sudo apt -y install docker.io
sudo systemctl start docker
sudo systemctl enable docker
sudo apt install curl
sudo curl -L "https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/1.24.1/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m)" -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
```

4. Install Botfront

```bash
npm install -g botfront
botfront init # create a project
```

5. Edit the `botfront.yml` file

```bash
nano .botfront/botfront.yml
```

In the `env` section, change the `root_url` to the machine IP address (leave the port 8888 unchanged)

```yaml
env:
  ...
  root_url: 'http://123.99.135.3:8888'
  ...
```

6. Launch Botfront

```bash
botfront up
```

7. Open Botfront in your browser (`http://123.99.135.3:8888`) and setup your project
8. Go to settings/credentials and change the `base_url` host to the IP address (keep the host unchanged)

```yaml
rasa_addons.core.channels.webchat.WebchatInput:
  session_persistence: true
  base_url: http://123.99.135.3:5005
  socket_path: "/socket.io/"
```

9. Botfront is ready to use.


## Configuration

### Services and Docker images

The table below lists all the services that can be used with Botfront.

| Service      | Docker image                                                |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| botftont     | `botfront/botfront`                                         |
| botfront-api | `botfront/botfront-api`                                     |
| rasa         | `botfront/rasa-for-botfront`                                |
| duckling     | `botfront/duckling`                                         |
| actions      | Build your own                                              |
| mongo        | `mongo` or hosted service (mLab, Mongo Atlas, Compose, ...) |

<Important type="tip" title="Image tags">

It is not recommended to deploy the images witout tags or with the `latest` tag. Look in the `.botfront.yml` for the tags corresponding to the version of Botfront you are using.

</Important>

Duckling (a structured entity parser developed by Facebook) is not strictly required if your NLU pipeline doesn't use it.

Also, be very careful with your choice regarding MongoDB. If you decide to just run it as a container, be sure to at least properly mount the volume on a physical disk (otherwise all your data will be gone when the container is destroyed) and seriously consider scheduling back-ups on a regular basis.

Using a hosted service such as MongoDB Atlas is highly recommended, some of them even include a free plan that will be more than enough for small projects.

### Environment variables

The following table shows the environment variables required by each service. Be sure to make those available as arguments or in the manifest files of your deployment

| Environment variable         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Required by               |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------- |
| `ROOT_URL`                   | The Botfront app URL (e.g. https://botfront.your.domain)                                                                                                                                                           | `botfront`                |
| `MONGO_URL`                  | The mongoDB connection string (e.g. `mongodb://user:pass@server:port/database`)                                                                                                                                    | `botfront` `botfront-api` |
| `MONGO_OPLOG_URL`            | The mongoDB Oplog connection string                                                                                                                                                                                | `botfront` (optional)     |
| `MAIL_URL`                   | An SMTP url if you want to use the password reset feature                                                                                                                                                          | `botfront`                |
| `BF_PROJECT_ID`              | The Botfront project ID (typically `bf`)                                                                                                                                                                           | `rasa`                    |
| `BF_URL`                     | The `botfront-api` root url                                                                                                                                                                                        | `rasa` `actions`          |
| `API_KEY`                    | GraphQL API key. You can then set the `authorization` header to the `API_KEY` value to perform GraphQL operations                                                                                                  | `botfront` `rasa`         |
| `MODELS_LOCAL_PATH`          | Where the trained model returned by Rasa is stored locally. Defaults to `/app/models/` and should not be changed in a containerized environment. The Botfront Dockerfile exposes a volume with that path           | `botfront` (optional)     |
| `GRAPHQL_REQUEST_SIZE_LIMIT` | The size over which requests sent to the GraphQL server will receive a HTTP Error 413 (Payload Too Large) response. Defaults to 200kb and [follows Express specs](https://github.com/expressjs/body-parser#limit). | `botfront` (optional)     |

The following table list environment variables used to configure logging within botfront and botfront-api. Make those available as arguments or in the manifest files of your deployment

| Environment variable            | Description                                                                                                                                                                | Allowed values                     | default              |
|---------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|----------------------|
| `APPLICATION_LOG_TRANSPORT`     | Where the application log are written                                                                                                                                      | console, stackdriver               | console              |
| `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS`| Path to google cloud service account file, required if you use stackdriver (see https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/getting-started for details)                  |                                    | none                 |
| `APPLICATION_LOG_LEVEL`         | Minimal severity of logs                                                                                                                                                   | critical, error, warn, info, debug | info                 |
| `APPLICATION_LOGGER_NAME`       | The name of the application logger in Stackdriver                                                                                                                          | Any string                         | botfront_log_app     |
| `MAX_LOGGED_ARG_LENGTH`         | Maximum length of stringified `args` for readability and data usage concerns. Only affecting `info` logs and when APPLICATION_LOG_LEVEL is set to info. Args are never trucated when APPLICATION_LOG_LEVEL is set to debug                 | Any positive integer               | 1000                 |
| `MAX_LOGGED_DATA_LENGTH`        | Maximum length of stringified `data` in request to the api for readability and data usage concerns.                                                                        | Any positive integer               | 100                  |
| `APPLICATION_API_LOGGER_NAME`   | The name of the api application logger in Stackdriver                                                                                                                      | Any string                         | botfront-api_log_app |
| `APPLICATION_API_LOG_TRANSPORT` | Where the api application log are written                                                                                                                                  | console, stackdriver               | console              |
| `APPLICATION_API_LOG_LEVEL`     | Minimal severity of logs for the api                                                                                                                                       | error, warn, info, debug           | info                 |
| `MAX_LOG_BODY_LENGTH`           | Maximum length of stringified `body` in logged request or response from the api                                                                                            | Any positive integer               | 100                  |
| `AUDIT_LOG_TRANSPORT`           | Where the audit log are written (Only on Entreprise-edition)                                                                                                               | console, stackdriver               | console              |
| `AUDIT_LOGGER_NAME`             | The name of the audit logger in Stackdriver (Only on Entreprise-edition)                                                                                                   | Any string                         | botfront_log_audit   |


### Volumes

Although volumes are technically not required for Botfront to run and work, if you do not mount them your data will be gone when containers are destroyed.

| Volume        | Description                                                                    | Used by    |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------- |
| `/app/models` | Where Botfront stores the model retured by Rasa when the training is completed | `botfront` |
| `/app/models` | Where Rasa loads a model from when it starts                                   | `rasa`     |
| `/data/db`    | Where MongoDB persists your data                                               | `mongo`    |

`/app/models` should be mounted on the same location so when Rasa restarts it can load the latest trained model.

### MongoDB database considerations

It is **highly** recommended (but optional) to provide an oplog url with `MONGO_OPLOG_URL`. This will improve the reactivity of the platform as well as reduce the network throughput between MongoDB and Botfront.

<Important type="warning" title="IMPORTANT: choose a very short database name">

Choose a very short database name (e.g `bf`) and not too long response names to [avoid hitting the limits](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/limits/#namespaces).

</Important>

### Indicative minimal technical requirements

Those are the minimal requirements:

| Service                      |    RAM | CPU |
| ---------------------------- | -----: | --: |
| botfront                     |   1 Gb |   1 |
| botfront-api                 | 128 Mb | 0.5 |
| duckling                     | 512 Mb | 0.5 |
| rasa (depending on NLU pipeline and policies) |   1-8 Gb |   1-4 |

### Endpoints

Endpoints let you define how your Rasa instance communicates with Botfront and the actions server:

-   the Botfront API to query the bot responses (`nlg`)
-   the actions server (`action_endpoint`)
-   the tracker store (`tracker_store`)

```yaml
nlg:
  type: 'rasa_addons.core.nlg.GraphQLNaturalLanguageGenerator'
  url: 'http://botfront:3000/graphql'
action_endpoint:
  url: 'http://actions:5055/webhook'
tracker_store:
  store_type:  'rasa_addons.core.tracker_stores.botfront.BotfrontTrackerStore'
  url: 'http://botfront:3000/graphql'
```

<Important type="info" title="Botfront Cloud">
If you want to focus on your product rather than dealing with deployment issues we offer a managed service with managed deployments,
separate development and production environments,
and many premium features including analytics.
You can contact us from our <a href="/pricing">pricing page</a> to have more information.
</Important>
