docs/guide/environments/environments.mdx, before:

---
route: /docs/environments/
title: Production deployments
menu: Authoring conversations
name: Publish and deploy
meta:
  - name: description
    content: "Deploy your Rasa assistant on one click with Botfront environments."
  # - name: keywords
  #   content: botfront stories nlu rasa
---

Available in: <Premium plan="Botfront Cloud" />  <Premium plan="Botfront Enterprise" />

# Publishing and deploying

Production projects often require a minimal workflow to determine what needs to go to production and to make sure the end user experience is isolated from the development of new features.
Botfront allows to **publish stories** and **deploy your project** to serve those purposes.

## Deploy your project

The **development** environment is the sandbox where you create or edit your project.
Once you are satisfied with what you have in the development environment, you can deploy your project and make it available to end users.
The environment in which your project is deployed is call the **production** environment, and is completely isolated from the development environment.

All the changes you make after deploying your project will only be effective in the development environment, and will not affect your end users experience.
At anytime, you can deploy your project again to bring your changes to the production environment and your end users.

To deploy a project to production, simply expand the **Train everything** button and click on **Deploy to production**.

![](../../images/deploy_to_production.png)


## Publish stories

When a new story is created it has the **unpublished** status.
An unpublished story will not be available to your end users when you deploy your project. However, it will always be available in the development environment once trained.

This allows to selectively deploy stories. For example, some of your stories might not be finished or approved to hit production.
Or some stories are meant to be published only at certain times when there is a special promotion or a temporary service disruption.

To publish a story, turn the switch on in the story menu:
<video autoplay muted loop width="100%" controls>
  <source src="../../videos/publish_story.m4v" type="video/mp4"/>
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

Commit message:

refactor: remove model bucket
* Refactor/docs remove commercial (#890)

refactor: remove commercials mentions in the docs

Co-authored-by: Nathan Zylbersztejn <nathan.zylbersztejn@dialogue.co>

* refactor: removes references to models buckets

* refactor: add new hooks definitions

* refactor: call after training webhook

* test: fix yaml format error

* test: fix yaml file format

* refactor: update project create test

* refactor: add aftertraining webhook migration

* refactor: move after training webhook call

* chore: remove @google-cloud/storage

* fix: training failing with no postTraining webhool

* docs: document postTraining webhook

* refactor: uncoment code

* refactor: remove old code

* refactor: fix typo

* chore: remove console.log

Co-authored-by: GuillaumeTech <guillaumeval.techer@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Nathan Zylbersztejn <nathan.zylbersztejn@dialogue.co>
Co-authored-by: Philippe Cote-Boucher <pcoteboucher@0.edu.kg>

docs/guide/environments/environments.mdx, after:

---
route: /docs/environments/
title: Production deployments
menu: Authoring conversations
name: Publish and deploy
meta:
  - name: description
    content: "Deploy your Rasa assistant on one click with Botfront environments."
  # - name: keywords
  #   content: botfront stories nlu rasa
---


# Publishing and deploying

Production projects often require a minimal workflow to determine what needs to go to production and to make sure the end user experience is isolated from the development of new features.
Botfront allows to **publish stories** and **deploy your project** to serve those purposes.

## Deploy your project

> **Note**: to use the integrated deployment feature you need to implement a [deployment webhook](/docs/installation/integration/).


The **development** environment is the sandbox where you create or edit your project.
Once you are satisfied with what you have in the development environment, you can deploy your project and make it available to end users.
The environment in which your project is deployed is call the **production** environment, and is completely isolated from the development environment.

All the changes you make after deploying your project will only be effective in the development environment, and will not affect your end users experience.
At anytime, you can deploy your project again to bring your changes to the production environment and your end users.

To deploy a project to production, simply expand the **Train everything** button and click on **Deploy to production**.

![](../../images/deploy_to_production.png)


## Publish stories

When a new story is created it has the **unpublished** status.
An unpublished story will not be available to your end users when you deploy your project. However, it will always be available in the development environment once trained.

This allows to selectively deploy stories. For example, some of your stories might not be finished or approved to hit production.
Or some stories are meant to be published only at certain times when there is a special promotion or a temporary service disruption.

To publish a story, turn the switch on in the story menu:
<video autoplay muted loop width="100%" controls>
  <source src="../../videos/publish_story.m4v" type="video/mp4"/>
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>
